<span style="color:#000ff;">Wavy hair can make you look bookish, broish, sex-godish, or sometimes, a little neanderthalish.</span> <span style="color:#000ff;"><i>GQ's</i></span><span style="color:#000ff;">September cover star, Adam Driver, for instance, has managed to both repulse and seduce fans of HBO's</span> <span style="color:#000ff;"><i>Girls</i></span> <span style="color:#000ff;">with the styling (or rather, greasy unstyling) of his naturally wavy black mop-top. "Most guys with wavy hair want to cut it short to control it, but you don't have to with the right products," says hair pro David Cox, who styled Driver's hair for his</span> <span style="color:#000ff;"><i>GQ</i></span> <span style="color:#000ff;">shoot. Men who want to ride the wave in style—check out these tips below along with the products Cox used on Driver.</span>
<span style="color:#000ff;"><b>1. Layer Up:</b></span> <span style="color:#000ff;">Length can help you tamp down the dreaded poof, but layers are essential for looking polished--and less like a surfer burnout. Have your stylist point cut (meaning, scissors point towards your head) two or three inch layers, which adds texture and removes bulk.</span>
<span style="color:#000ff;"><b>2. Blot, Don't Rub:</b></span> <span style="color:#000ff;">Ferociously rubbing your head with a nubby towel post shower roughs up your hair cuticles and leads to frizz. Try squeezing locks with the towel (or even better, a T-shirt) to suck out wetness.</span>
<span style="color:#000ff;"><b>3. Moisturize:</b></span> <span style="color:#000ff;">If you've got thickness on top of waves, a light conditioner will keep things more manageable and soft.</span>
<span style="color:#000ff;"><b>4. Lose the Brush:</b></span> <span style="color:#000ff;">It's fine to comb out hair just after stepping out of the shower, but use your fingers after that point. "A brush or comb on dry hair will only add volume," says Cox.</span>
<span style="color:#000ff;"><b>Get Driver's Look:</b></span> <span style="color:#000ff;">Cox rubbed a dime-sized amount of Kevin Murphy's</span> <a href="http://kevinmurphy.com.au/product/hair-resort/" rel="noopener" class="external-link" target="_blank" style="color:#e4afaff;"><u>Hair.Resort</u></a> <span style="color:#000ff;">(an oil-free texturizing cream) between his palms and applied the product evenly throughout Driver's damp locks to enhance waves and add hold. Once Driver's hair was dry, he applied a small amount (think: half a thumbnail) of Kevin Murphy's</span> <a href="http://kevinmurphy.com.au/product/gritty-business/" rel="noopener" class="external-link" target="_blank" style="color:#e4afaff;"><u>Gritty.Business</u></a> <span style="color:#000ff;">(a matte, strong hold wax) to break up some pieces, add texture, and set the look.</span>