1. Describe a personality characteristic about you that is noteworthy.  After this, describe how Freud would explain that behavior in 2 to 3 paragraphs. --4 points

- As part of my personality, I consider myself an anxious but very independent person. 
  I believe Freud would explain this as an effect of a fixation in the Oral stage of my psychosexual development. Freud may have attributed this oral fixation and independence to my coping mechanisms in my early years. I was often a quiet kid and sucked on my thumb well after transitioning from a new born to an infant.
  I often find myself getting overly anxious which causes different physical ticks like biting my nails or chewing on a pen (something i've done since grade school.) I believe Freud would call this a form of regression, returning to a more immature level of functioning where the nail biting, although very bad for my teeth and nails, becomes a comfort zone for me.
  When I was young, I was often left to take care of myself because my parents both worked long hours. This lead to the defense mechanism of Reaction Formation because even thought I was lonely, I presented myself has happy and secure. This was actually the opposite of what I was.

3. Take the same behavior described in the first question and try to explain it through the theories of a) Carl Jung, b) humanistic psychologists, and c) social cognitive personality researchers.  Each explanation should be around 4 to 6 sentences long. --8 points

- A) I believe Carl Jung would explain my anxious behavior through this theory of collective unconscious which is the cumulative experience of preceding generations. My parents both separately grew up fast and had to survive on their own from a very young age and this contributed to my own sense of independence. My mother's father was in the air force and lived in many countries throughout the world but never really settled in one place and my father grew up working on a farm, picking crops. Their sense of independence was definitely passed on to me which often made it hard to grow close connections with others.
- B) Instead of describing my independence as a culmination of past generations, Humanistic Psychologists like Carl Rogers may explain it as having a disconnect between my self-concept and my ideal self and how many of those attributes overlap. Independence in my life leads me to isolating myself which can often lead to conditional positive regard ( I will let you help me if...) instead of the recommended unconditional positive regard which is still feeling love even if my instincts are to push people away. This independence can also be described as an issue of inferiority complex where I often don't let people help me so I can prove to them that I am useful and resourceful and in a way superior for doing everything on my own. 
- C) Social Cognitive Personality Researchers would describe this as modeling, which is just us learning from the people around us. 

5. Discuss whether or not you think psychology classes should still be discussing Freud in an introduction to psychology course.  Make sure to justify your response with at least 3 good arguments. --3 points

-  I think it is important to study the history of psychology even if the research may have been abandoned or discredited and here is why:
	- it's important to see and explain what science without evidence looks like. we need to learn from our mistakes as much as from our successes and this only happens if we keep teaching the work of researchers that we no longer agree with.
	- science is an ever evolving leap frog and the history is very important as it may lead to influencing how scientists research. Freud's less scientific methods gave way to new ways of thinking and even though psychologists now don't agree with Freud's interpretations, this general direction of the unconscious played an important role in the direction of psychology.I think this can influence current and future students to be resilient.
	- With freud, we see a very important aspect of confidence in research that can asl influence younger generations to see both sides of the research. One side being the confident insights without much backing evidence and the other side being a much more mature Personality Psychology with a lot of momentum.
-