

1. Summarize this section's chapter and presentation in 6 to 9 paragraphs. Cover the general message of the presentation, as well as some of the important terms and concepts. Note: don't forget to summarize the <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rdrKCilEhC0" rel="noopener" class="external-link" target="_blank"><u>Obedience video.</u></a>

Afterward, provide in 2-3 sentences what you will take from the material from this section. Use your own words throughout this summary please! --15 points

This section is about conformity in

Conformity and Social Influence

In this section, we go over conformity and social influence, what the research says about why people go along with the crowd even when the crowd is obviously wrong, what happens when people are given power, and ethics of research when it comes to conformity and social influence. To conform at its basic level is to alter one's behavior to match other people's behavior or expectations and for the most part, this is positive. Imagine if everyone had their own individual language, this would create too much confusion when trying to communicate. In order for the world to work, people developed norms that define expectations of how to behave in the world. For example, it was common in the mid 1800s for cowboys to get in shootouts and duels so eventually laws were create to set norms against randomly shooting people for the hell of it. When asked if you would conform, of course you would say no but when actually put in the situation, the research shows there is a chance you may conform to the wrong answer.

As we started to research conformity in the early 1900s, we found there was no true appropriate behavior to most social situations and obviously, there was very little insight into how people were acting around the world as there was no radio, television or internet to see. Because of this, people would looked to their peers or leaders around them to decide how to act. People wanted to make sure they were not standing out or embarrassing themselves. 

So we started to figure out people just wanted to fit in but there was still plenty of answers we did not know. One such question was "Would we still conform to the group when we knew that the others around us were wrong?" A researcher by the name of Solomon Asch conducted the vertical line experiment that tested to see how people would respond to the question "Which bar is the same length as as the model?" and had confederates in the experiment answer wrongly to see how the actual participant would response. The participants surprisingly conformed to the group with the wrong answers about 1/3 of the time. Further experiments with a high number of confederates giving wrong answers increased conformity but also found that if a participant had an ally (someone who answered correctly), they were more likely to also give the right answer.

So the research shows there is a chance you will conform even when you know the answer is incorrect, but what about obeying orders to hurt someone? If I asked you to hurt someone, in most situations, you most likely will refuse. In the early 1970s, Phillip Zimbardo wanted to test this theory and conducted the Stanford Prison Experiment and found that when given the power and order, participants that were assigned the role of guards quickly started to abuse their power and abuse the participants assigned as the prisoners. This did not turn out to be solid evidence because Zimbardo had instructed the guards to "create fear, deprive prisoners of privacy and give a sense of powerlessness." 

In another study conducted by Stanley Milgram, Two participants of normal backgrounds were assigned a teacher role and learner role respectively. The leaner role was actually a confederate hired by Milgram. The teacher then asked questions to the learner and if answered incorrectly, the teacher was instructed to shock the learner, first starting at 15 volts and increasing with each wrong answer. The learner was never actually shocked but still acted like they were hurt by the shocks. Over half of the participants delivered shocks all the way up to the max of 450 volts. what was also surprising was of the participants that continued to shock past 330 volts went all the way to the max 450 volts. There are a couple reasons why the teachers continued to shock the learners: The experimenter took responsibility and the teacher (participants) saw themselves as the assistant just following orders. 

Because both of the mentioned experiments had a detrimental effect on the participants, researchers started questions the ethics of their studies, so much so that the US Government established regulations such as rules of informed consent to protect people participating in these types of research studies. It's interesting to think now we know that people will hurt others for the sake of following orders but at what expense?

Conformity is about how we alter ourselves to fit into a situation or group, so how does this effect the working/corporate world? According to the research, groups of people will make better decisions about moral judgements, visual problems, and ways of dividing limited resources than individuals when everyone is equally well informed and working in a cooperative manner. When in situations where are more technical decision needs to be made, it is better to have an expert take charge. It's important to be mindful of what is called *group polarization* which can heavily sway a group in one direction if everyone in the group is already leaning towards that decision. This is why it is crucial to give everyone a safe space to speak. The more voices in a group, the better the decisions will reflect the needs of everyone. When there is not a safe space, this can lead to group think, which suppresses the voices of people who may not have the confidence to speak for fear of making a bad impression or disrupting group harmony. You often see this in male dominated corporate America.

