# Module 2 Write Up



1. Please describe the action potential in your own words in 8-12 sentences.  This description should include not only the point of the action potential, but also the parts involved in the process.  Grades will be determined by the number of parts successfully described (4 points), a clear description of the point of an action potential (2 points), and a thorough explanation of the path taken during this action potential (2 points). --8 points

**Action Potential consists of 4 parts: Axon Hillock, Sodium Ion Gates, Potassium Ion Gates, and Terminal Bouton. The Axons first start in the resting potential state which means Sodium Ions are concentrated outside of the zone with a positive charge and potassium is concentrated inside the axon with a negative charge. Action potential starts with either spontaneous activity from a group of axons or there is input from neighboring neurons. Once the exception threshold is met, Sodium Ion gates are briefly opened, positively charged sodium ions are attracted to concentration of negatively charged potassium ions. The potassium ion gates are also opened and the potassium ions are pushed out along with the positive charge which brings the axon back to resting potential. The sodium ions then move from point to point in the axons until they hit your brain which causes the sensation. The point of action potential is to transmit information from part of our body to another and because of Action potential, the sensation we feel in our fingers is just a strong as in our toes even though the conduction has to move a much further distance. As the sodium ions enter the membrane, some are diffused to other parts of the axon’s which creates a chain reaction, exciting it enough to open more sodium ion gates.**

2. Please describe a part of the brain that you found particularly interesting in 3-5 sentences.--3 points

**The part I find most interesting about the brain is the occipital lobe which is specialized for vision, specifically the differences between cortical blindness versus blindness resulting from damage to the eye. In my understanding, damage to the eye results in not being able to see physically but one will still have the ability imagine a visual seen where as with cortical blindness, resulting from damage to the occipital lobe section of the brain, one no longer is capable of imagining visuals mentally but will still have the ability to be effected by the sun in terms of sleep wake cycles. This shows how connected our brain is to itself and one physical activity is not only connected to one physical part of our brain. This matters because humans often want a 1:1 correlation of physical to mental processes but animal brains are much more complex than this.**

3. If I want to see how QUICKLY you respond to the sound of your voice, which brain analysis technique should I use (using only the ones that we discussed). Explain your answer. Please note that there is an absolutely right answer here, so don't just guess. --2 points

**If you wanted to measure how quickly one responds to the sound of your voice, we would use an Electroencephalograph (EEG). When a sound is played, an EEG would record the electrical signal in the brain and how long it took to show up on the machine.** 

4. If I wanted to determine what parts of your brain that you NEEDED (not just used) in order to respond to the sound of your voice, which brain analysis technique should I use? Again, choose from only the ones that we discussed. Explain your response. Please note again that there is an absolutely correct answer here as well--so no guessing. --2 points

**If you wanted to determine what parts of the brain you need in order to respond to the sound of your voice, you would use a Positron Emission Tomography (PET Scans). The Patient would first receive an injection of radioactively labeled compound such as glucose. The most active areas of the brain when the sound is is played rapidly absorb the glucose and doctors on the head would record this activity to let us know what areas of the brain are needed to response to the sound of your voice.**