# Module 4 Write Up

1. List two characteristics/traits that you think define who you are. Then, try to determine how those characteristics/traits might have been caused by operant or classical conditioning. Make sure to use the terminology from the class, you will be graded based on your assessment of the concepts and correct use of the terminology. Please note, there IS WRONG ANSWERS for these.  Being able to successfully identify how and when these concepts apply is a critical part of this question. --5 points

**The first characteristic of myself that defines me is how quiet I am with people I do not now. I believe this to be caused by classical conditioning. When I was younger, I played in a band with who I considered to be good friend. Throughout the process of recording our first couple songs, I was still learning to play the guitar and would have to play the parts I wrote for the songs many times. I would often have ideas of how the songs should be structured, lyrics I thought went well and parts for other instruments that I was still a beginner at playing. Whenever I had an Idea, the lead singer (often referred to as the leader of the band) would say my ideas were stupid and not worse exploring. Because Of this,I became really quiet and would often hesitate to express my ideas whenever people were around.**

**The second characteristic that defines me is how I love to work. I am such a fan of going into the office and feeling productive (primary reinforcement). I believe this to be a product of operant conditioning. When I was younger, My second job was working at the Apple Store where it was busy all the time (stimulus). Because of this, there was no shortage of work which allowed me top show my managers that I could work hard and make an impact. Because of this, I was rewarded with raises and job promotions along the way which caused me to work even harder because this work was reinforced by more money, more responsibility and positive praise (positive reinforcement). As I continued to work, the rewards (satisfaction) kept reinforcing our strong work ethic, which caused me to work eve harder (secondary reinforcement). Now, I find myself having a strong expectation for my work output because I know there will be satisfaction in a job well done.**

**Another example of Operant Conditioning is how I always like to be early to work. In the beginning of my Apple Store job, I was young and often late to work. Because of this, I was given a warning that if I were to continue on the path of tardiness, there was a chance of terminated for bad attendance. Even the thought of a punishment like termination was able to condition me to arrive early, not only for work but always i other aspects of my life like my social life and my hobbies. Eventually, there was a period of extinction when I no longer had an attendance warning (no more reinforcement) which caused me to fall back into a late pattern but once I had one more late warning, I was back to getting to work early before I had another warning on my record.**

2. Lilian went to a movie a few months ago after **catching the flu**. She ended up getting very **nauseated** and **sweaty** while watching the film. Since then, she finds herself feeling ill whenever she smells the scent of popcorn or walks into a theater. Explain how this could have happened through the concept of classical conditioning. Be sure to detail how each appropriate term applies to this example. --5 points

**Normally, eating popcorn and watching a movie is a pleasant experience for Lilian** ***(Neutral Stimulus)*****. Because she went to the movies and ate popcorn after having the flu (which had lingering effects like nausea and sweatiness), Lilian starts to becoming ill (conditioned response) with the scent of popcorn and act going to the theater (Conditional Stimulus). What was once a neutral stimulus (eating popcorn and watching a movie at the theater), these have now become a conditional stimulus with a conditional response (feeling ill) even outside of going to the theater.** 

3. Harry keeps struggling to complete his assignments until just moments before the assignment is due. His behavior of finding ways to procrastinate just keep coming up every time he thinks about his assignments. Try to explain how this tendency to procrastinate came about through principles of operant conditioning. Also, try to explain how this procrastination can be stopped through operant conditioning principles. Be sure to detail how each appropriate term applies to the different components of this example. --5 points

**Unfortunately, It seems like Harry’s actions are reinforcing his procrastination. Because Harry is still completing his assignments (and receiving adequate grades = positive reinforcement), procrastination is reinforced because even if Harry procrastinates, the assignments are still getting done and he still receives a good grade (satisfaction = reinforcement). The law of effect states that actions are reinforced if closely followed by satisfaction. In order for Harry to change his procrastination habits, a satisfaction (reward) needs to be put in place, such as if Harry finishes his studies a day early, he ca treat himself to a night of playing video games.**