# Module 7 Write Up

1. Describe your take on the nature versus nurture debate on intelligence in 2-3 paragraphs. Be sure to back your arguments up with details from the material. There are no wrong opinions in this, but clear use of the content is required for full credit. --3 points
**Nature vs Nurture Debate**

**I believe that there is an interplay between nature and nurture. Nature to me is a person’s genetic baseline and I believe some people are born intelligent. From before the very first IQ tests, we see there are major variations in cognitive ability, so much so that the french government wanted to test children for fear of holding back the rest of the cohort. The research shows correlation between genetics and IQ Tests. If some people are truly born smart, then that intelligence get’s passed down . On the other side, there are children in the world that will not have supportive environments which may cause them to fall behind regardless of if they were born with a high intelligence, especially in area’s of the world where they might not have basic resources like education. These kids may miss school, which research shows this has a detrimental impact on IQ Scores.**

**It’s important to include nurture when talking about development especially when you talk about IQ rating between different cultures. Children in China are often reading and doing math a much higher grade levels because there is significantly more mental stimulation due to the societal pressures to be successful. There is research that shows creating an enriched environment for children to learn raises IQ scores.**

2. Describe your stance in 2-3 paragraphs on which theorist's approach to different dimensions of intelligence makes the most sense to you.  Be sure that your arguments are again supported by material, and that you show a strong understanding of the different stances that the theorists Gardner, Sternberg, and Spearman had on the topic. --4 points

**The Theory of Multiple Intelligences makes the most sense to me as I believe this is inherently how the brain works. Also our brain does work together for many processes, there are different centers in the brain dedicated to different processes. The Theory of Multiple Intelligences encompasses more a lived human experience that uses more aspects of the brain such as spatial reasoning, musical ability, logical and mathematical reasoning and much more. Although these intelligences may work together, I think people are able to be stronger in some than others**

**Spearman’s psychometric approach to intelligence was a great start to figuring out how we are to measure such things as intelligence but really had limitations when it came to the lived experience. Humans are not always good at something because they are good at something else.**

**I believe that Sternberg’s Triarchic Theory of Intelligence is not the best way to measure intelligence because it focuses too heavily on problem solving.**

3. Describe the last time that you judged the behavior of another person through the context of what we discussed in this class in 5-8 sentences. Be sure that you clearly define and apply the terminology and concepts from the attributions portion of the class to your example. --4 points
**While I was waiting for an appointment at the Apple Store, I overheard a gentleman arguing with one of the store employee’s about his iPhone. The gentleman was raising his voice and making demands and the store employee had a mostly neutral look on his face but from his body language, I could also see that he was concerned. I felt myself judging this belligerent man and assuming that yelling at store clerks is apart of his personality because he was seemingly losing his composure. This is an example of being influenced by Consensus Information. (I believed it was an internal attribution because this is not typically how people act.) The engagement kept escalating until eventually the gentleman screamed “help me this instance” and slammed his already busted phone to the floor, breaking it further into pieces. Everyone around us goes quiet and after moment, the belligerent gentleman breaks down crying, explaining that his wife was in the hospital and he needed his phone to call her. I realized this was more of an external attribution because this may not be how this man typically acts, but the situation is causing a lot more stress than normal. I want to call our the Actor-Observer effect here because I was quick to judge this man on what I thought was a personality straight (internal attributions) instead of just a product of the situation he was in (External attributions). Of course if this was happening to me, I would know this was just from my situation.**

4. Describe the last time that you were stereotyped or uses a stereotype for someone else. Also describe how this led to related attitudes/behaviors that we discussed in this module's information (using the appropriate terminology in this description). Clearly define your concepts, incorporate the related ones into your response, and apply them correctly in your explanation that should be roughly 4-8 sentences. --4 points

**I live next to a homeless encampment in Albany, Ca. I often see unhoused people talking together, exchanging items, bartering and other things that may be stereotyped as suspicious for those encampments. These groups of people are often stereotyped (belief or expectation about a group of people) as drug users that are bad for the community and make the neighborhood unsafe for the children. They also get blamed for package theft without any real evidence to support it. When I drive by, I sometimes see people exchanging items and think to myself, that is probably a drug deal and an automatic response of prejudice (an unfavorable attitude toward a group of people) crosses my mind. I have these thoughts like “if only they tried harder to keep a job” or “why do they have to build their encampment here”. It’s important I overcome these thoughts and actually find some time to learn more about these people. I can volunteer with Berkeley to bring them food and warm clothes for winter. The research shows that interaction reduces prejudice.**