1. In 4-6 sentences, provide a hypothetical example of a mental health issue where the diathesis-stress model would apply.  Be sure to define both of these components in your own words while explaining how each component is playing a role in this issue in this hypothetical scenario. --4 points

	An example of a mental health disorder where the diathesis-stress model would apply is depression. Diathesis-Stress Model is where an individual may be predisposed to a specific mental disorder (diathesis) so when they are exposed to a certain level of stress in their environment, the mental disorder may activate. In the example of depression, two individuals when have differing levels of predisposition to depression. If these two individuals are exposed two the same amount of environmental stress (this is the stress component), only one may develop the mental disorder where as the other individual maybe not. A real world example of this would be two children in the same family. Although the two children may both be predisposed due to hereditary, the predisposition levels may differ. The outcome is one child may develop depression while the other may be able to keep composed during the rise of environmental stress.

2. Discuss whether or not you think the DSM is a good thing or a bad thing for clinical psychology.  Explain your answer with at least 2 arguments, and also explain at least 1 argument that counters your belief. --5 points

	Before the DSM, research and experimentation outcomes were siloed to the institution conducting the research leading to each institution developing their in-house diagnostic system. This meant that in different regions, individuals were getting different treatments depending on which institution they were being diagnosed. Creating the DSM made it so that the language around diagnosing patients would have common ground and research could be unified. When common language is used, there is little to no ambiguity of about the research and the outcomes of studies so researchers spend less time questioning the broader ideas and more time collaborating on the fine details. This also matters because having a common language allows for communication to be simplified so not only could communication be efficient when collaborating but also easier for the general public to understand. It's important for the general public to understand mental illnesses because once people understand, they have an easier time coping with an illness and working toward implementing a solution for living with the illness.
	
	To summarize, my 2 arguments are: the DSM allows researches to remove any ambiguity while researching and collaborating with different institutions and the DSM also also for a simplified clarity surrounding the topic of mental illness that also the general public to be less confused about it so they can feel more comfortable during diagnoses and comfortable while implementing coping mechanisms to live with the illness.
	
	One counterargument is that the DSM is written primarily based upon the western cultural perspective of mental illnesses. This creates a bias toward what is considered normal and abnormal in terms of diagnosing. This causes the level of treatment given to an individual widely varied from region to region. What is normal in one culture maybe be abnormal in another culture and it would be difficult to diagnose using the DSM around the world. One example of this is saying you are processed by spirits. It is common in some African cultures to believe this to be the case but in the US, you maybe be diagnosed with mania or schizophrenia.

3. Compare and contrast in 3-4 paragraphs the utility of 2 of the different psychological approaches to health that we discussed in the second lecture for issues that you or someone you know might be facing in their life.  Be sure to use your own words when describing the approaches, and to be thorough in your explanation for how and why they would apply to your described situation. --6 points

	Medication vs psychoanalysis

	Mental illness in America is treated in a variety of ways ranging from the very rare psychosurgery, to common approaches such as Medications, psychotherapy, cognitive behavioral therapy and the humanistic approach, which consists of evaluating your ideal self and comparing to your self-actualized self. Medications work on a cellular level and psychoanalysis uses talk therapy to analyze thoughts (among other things).
	
	Medications provide quick results that can tackle very serious problems due to chemical imbalances in the brain. These medications can help reduce symptoms of a wide range of different mental issues. If the root of the problem is purely chemical imbalance, medications will make a very large impact on the quality of life of the patient but will definitely come with costs. Some examples of costs of medication are overmedication, addiction to the medication, tolerance of the medication, as well as ambiguity of getting down to the root of the problem. Medications may be just a temporary fix of symptoms with out really solving the underlying issues related to environmental stress.
	
	Psychoanalysis helps to dive into the unconscious to reveal underlying issues that lead to negative emotions. Although not immediate, talk therapy can explore the present as well as the past to determine patterns leading to disturbing thoughts, feelings of shame, loss of composure. When we understand the why these negative feeling are surfacing, we can address the root causes like environmental stress.
	
	Recently, a relative of mine had a breakdown and needed to go on mood stabilizing medication because the stress of her world was too heavy and she attempted suicide. She diagnosed as bi-polar and clinical depressed. While going through this, she found out that she was predisposed on this and the stress of lack of money or help caused this serious depression. While taking the medication, she was also doing talk therapy to help understand the disturbing thoughts she was having and learn how to reframe this thoughts into a more positive conversation.


