# Module 3 Write Up

1. Please provide two different 4-6 sentence descriptions of pieces of information that you saw/heard from this section's presentation that you found interesting. In these descriptions, cover what the topic discussed and detail why you found these facts interesting. Note: you should NOT directly quote anything (use your own words). --5 points (2.5 points per topic, half of the credit is for the amount of content covered, the other half is for the clarity of your description) *Note: If your topic isn't related to what was covered, you will receive no credit for this section.

**I have always found electromagnetic wavelengths interesting because they are invisible to the naked eye and get converted into color and brightness. I have informally studied audio wavelengths in terms of audio production and didn’t realize how light and vision work in a similar way. The shorter the wavelength, the faster they hit our eyes and the more purple the color we see. The lower the frequency of the wavelength, the slower it hits our eyes, the more red we see and of course everything in between. The part I find most interesting is that there are other animals in the animal kingdom that have a wider range of a visual light spectrum. This makes me question how many more things are going on that humans cannot perceive with our known senses.**

**I am also interested in the neural feedback loop that slows the responsiveness of our iris when we are caught in of Awe of or interested in something we are viewing even when the external light would normally cause the iris to shrink. It’s interesting to find out that what we perceive as beauty is actually causing our physical body to release different chemicals so we can feel this beauty more a longer amount of time. Connecting this back to something I said in a previous module, the human body feels like a miracle because of how complex it is. I am interested in emotions like Awe and Wonder and how our physical body processes them in our brain not only to see how we can feel these emotions in a strong way but use this knowledge to maybe treat mental illnesses cause as anxiety and depression.**



2. Provide two different 4-8 sentence summary of separate interesting topics or experiments discussed in the text that we DID NOT cover in the presentation. Detail why you found it interesting, and try to relate it to your own life. Again, DO NOT directly quote the text, use your own words. --5 points (2.5 points per topic, half of the credit is for the amount of content covered, the other half is for the clarity of your description) *Note: If your topic isn't related to what was covered, or covers something from the presentations, you will receive no credit for this section.

**An experiment from the text that was not covered in the presentation was a signal detection experiment in which participants were asked to verbally express words that were shown to them for just a moment. Patients did really well with words like river and peach. Once the patients were shown words that may have been tied more to emotions (such as penis and bitch), they started having a hard time feeling confident knowing exactly what were shown to them. The study started to show that words that were more tied to emotions were harder for the participants say out loud. This may have been because the participants were embarrassed or uncomfortable saying these words. I find this interesting because I think this calls back to the debate nature vs nurture. Genetics plays a big role in who we are so some people may just more uncomfortable naturally when it comes to talking about taboo ideas like sex while it also might be how they were raised and what experiences they had that may cause them to be comfortable or uncomfortable saying these types of words out loud. I typically find myself to be more uncomfortable talking about emotionally charged ideas which makes it harder for me to say such words. Sex or emotions were not something that was really talked about in my house growing up.**

**A topic I also find very interesting is Subliminal Perception. For a long time, humans thought hidden messages could be hidden our everyday consumption of media that could make us want to buy things we didn’t really want or make us do things that we didn’t want to do, such as flash a frame that says “eat popcorn” in a movie or that satanic messages were hidden in rock’n roll music. Over time, we found no scientific data that supports these claims but what scientists did find is that people’s thoughts can be influenced by subtle changes in facial expressions. One example is if they were shown a face with a smile, they would perceive a neutral face to be little happier than if they were to be shown the neutral face by itself. This relates to my own life because I can also be subtly influenced as well. If I am watching a sad/depressing movie just before my wife gets home from work, I may perceive her neutral facial expression as maybe sad when in reality, she is in a very neutral mood.**


3. Let's pretend that you just saw a firework show.  Walk through all of the parts of your eye and how they were used/necessary in order for you to sense the lights from the show. --5 points (3 points will be earned by covering all of the parts that we discussed in detail, the other 2 points can be earned by correctly discussion the path the light takes)

**Electromagnetic waves hit the eye and pass through the cornea, pupil, iris and the lens to hit the back of the eye where the receptors are. These receptors on the retina (cones and rods) then take in the image upside down. Then, visual receptors send their impulses away from the brain toward the center of the eye, where they contact neurons called bipolar cells. These impulses are then sent back through the optic nerve axons on the opposite side of the visual field that it comes from, passing through the visual area of the thalamus in the temporal lobe, eventually reaching the visual cortex in the occipital lobe.**