
I have some questions for you that might help us move forward a little more and give me a little more information (I know it can be a lot so take your time with them). It is important for me to get a sense of your goals for therapy so that I can develop a treatment plan to make sure we are meeting those goals! 

1. Describe the problem(s) that led to you entering therapy. How is that a problem for you? What have you already tried to resolve the issue and what has been useful? **I found myself crossing the line into verbal abuse when reacting to my wife’s emotional state. This is a problem because it creates a negative environment in my home. I have tried seeking therapy which has been useful in other ways but this time, I really want to dig deeper into my past traumas and soothe my inner child. ** 
2. What would you like to be different as a result of these sessions? **I want my reaction to my wife’s emotional state to be more compassionate and understanding instead of defensive and feeling like I am to blame. I also want to be more confident in myself and my feelings and be able to validate my own feelings instead of keeping them inside and feeling like I have to people please. **
3. Imagine that while you're sleeping, all of your problems are solved. When you wake up, how will you know that things are better? What specific changes do you notice? **I will know things are better because I will be able to pause, take a breathe and reframe any negative thoughts that are a result of my autonomic responses to stress. I will be able to talk openly about my feelings, taking responsibility for them without blame.**
4. What are three broad goals you would like to work on during therapy sessions? (Example: "Improve my relationship with my spouse.") - For each of the goals you listed, describe specifically how your life will be different once you've completed therapy. (Example: "My spouse and I would communicate about our problems. When we get angry at one another, we would know how to get through it without big fights.")  First goal: I will no longer avoid conflict in my relationships with my wife or my immediate family members while also showing them compassion. When I recognize my feelings, I will communicate them in a way that allows for collaborative solutions. When I find myself becoming emotional overwhelmed, irritated or impatient, I will be able to pause, take a breathe and start again with a new sense of composure. Second Goal: I want to stand up for my needs as a human while making sure I am a reliable husband and father. When I need time for myself, I will communicate this and work with my wife to set this time aside without fear of her reaction. Third Goal: Improve how I show my wife my love and desire for her more consistently. I will plan smaller dates for us and also plan bigger trips when time/finances allow.
5. Here are some questions regarding goals you might like to set during therapy. We are looking for measurable goals for these.
- What is something you would like to accomplish in the next week? Having Dinner ready for my wife when she get’s home from school and finishing the anniversary gift for her this week while I am away for work. Also, making sure I follow through with breakfast for Saturday breakfast for our camping trip this weekend.
- What is something you would like to accomplish in the next month?
- What is something you would like to accomplish in the next year? Having all of my debt paid off so I feel more financially stable and can start saving for bigger expenses in the coming year.
- What is something you would like to accomplish in the next 5 years? Finally being settled in NYC with our child.
- What obstacles may keep you from achieving these goals? Standing up for myself on how much I can realistically spent on fun activities my wife wants to do.
- What are some things you will need to do in order to achieve your goals? Learn to communicate my goals effectively so it’s more collaborative with my wife but also not running away when the conversation becomes difficult.
- What can you do starting today or tomorrow to begin working toward your goals? Starting out with talking about my feelings to people I feel safe with to build my confidence.

I am looking forward to collaborating with you and helping you to meet your goals! If at anytime you find yourself struggling with answering these questions, please feel free to reach out and we can work through possible barriers!

