# Module 1 Homework

1. Please provide a brief introduction of yourself and what led you to this class. --2 points
	1. Hello, my name is David Arechiga and I am a 35 year old college student. This is my third semester at BCC. This class is required for my AA degree in Digital Imaging but I have always been interested in the field of psychology for my own personal development. I have also been really interested in organizational psychologists such as Brené Brown and Adam Grant.
1. Please provide a 4-6 sentence discussion of one thing from the lecture laying out the class format and policies that stuck out to you. --3 points
	1. I appreciate that you (the professor) took to the time tell us about yourself because I feel like I know you better and feel more connected to the class. I also appreciate the format of specific deadlines because this allows me to use time blocking per week to go through the class work and not fall behind. I am a fan of multiple choice exams but I do think 60 minutes is kinda short for 40 questions. I like that the discussion posts are extra credit and I will do my best to converse with others to make sure everyone gets a well rounded view points from each section. These four points matter to me because I often am a procrastinator and I really want to break out of that habit so this is a great chance for me to practice actively reviewing and working on the material so I can get an A in this Psyche 1A Class.
1. Please provide a 4-6 sentence description of a topic from the history of psychology lecture that stuck out to you. --3 points
	1. A topic that stands out to me from the lecture is how Sigmund Freud’s work popularized psychology but also created a divide in the psychology community. This divide was between researchers that wanted to use the traditional methods of study such as those discussed in William James’ The Principles of Psychology and Freud’s methods of researching hidden aspects such as dreams, thoughts and memories. Freud’s theories also were seen as “sexy” to the majority of the population. This became controversial because Freud’s work was not backed by the same amount of research as his peers like William James but was more interesting and popular with the population. This helped to bring more attention to the field as a whole even if his views were more negative and didn’t follow the traditional research methods of psychologists at the time. 
1. Please provide a 4-6 sentence description of a topic from the assigned readings that stuck out to you.  Be sure that this topic is NOT covered in the presentations.  I want to check that you both read the book AND went through both of the presentations in full. --3 points
	1. A topic from the reading that stood out to me was the study of Animal intelligence and how that changed from a fixed system of ranking to a more dynamic system of varied knowledge bases. Based on Darwin’s Theory that we evolved from a process of natural selection, it was thought that humans would share common features such as degrees of intelligence. With this thinking, early psychologists set out to measure the intelligence of animals and wanted to rank in order of smartest to dullest. After studying animal intelligence for some time, it was determined that there were too many variances in knowledge and there wasn’t a way to rank the different types of intelligences that were found.
1. Please provide a detailed plan on how you will approach the class material for this course.  In other words, let me know how you plan to take notes on the content, what schedule you've set based on when things are due, how you're going to get the book, and what you'll do to study for the exams. --4 points
	1. My plan this semester is to follow a detailed time blocking plan to make sure I don’t procrastinate on readings or watching the lectures. I will set a time where I can be distraction free in order to finish my assignments early, which will give me time to review them a second time before submission as well as submit them early. Most assignments are due on Thursdays and Sundays so I have set my homework times to be Tuesdays, Fridays and Saturday’s. I will give myself a 3 hour block on these days to finish readings and lectures and take notes in my Apple notes app. After writing notes, I will also go over the notes to highlight important topics and bold/italicize certain words and definitions. For the exams, I will go over my notes and re-read the chapter summaries to prepare. I also intend to write note cards to study specific vocabulary that may be on the exam.