1. Please provide two different 4-6 sentence descriptions of pieces of information that you saw/heard from this section's presentation that you found interesting. In these descriptions, cover what the topic discussed and detail why you found these facts interesting. Note: you should NOT directly quote anything (use your own words). --5 points

**Something that was interesting to me in the lecture was the criteria for the different anxiety disorders that were talked about, specifically the length of time. For Generalized Anxiety Disorder, symptoms must be present for a minimum of 6 months and although not mentioned in the lecture directly, the DSM states 6 months is the length for most phobias. Panic disorders have a much shorter timeframe of 1 month. This means that although treatment in the beginning stages of these disorders is similar, not all anxiety is a disorder. As someone who knows little about anxiety disorder diagnoses, this was interesting because I am realizing that most treatment of GAD, Panic Disorder and phobias is going to be highly individual (as should most treatments healthcare issues). I believe humans need to start individualizing treatments in order to successfully resolve these kinds of disorders.

**Another fact in the lectures that caught my attention was that women seem to be diagnosed with many of the anxiety disorders like depression and panic disorder about twice as much for anxiety and mood disorders. In cases involving GAD, women are diagnosed upwards of 3 times more than men and panic disorder 2.5 times more. Women are also twice as likely to be diagnosed with Depression. I find this very interesting because women are often  and after some research, studies show women are more likely to have a lifetime diagnosis as well as to be diagnosed with another anxiety disorder or major depressive disorder (a mood disorder). I think this is important because we need to take into account throughout history, women have been treated unequal for 1000s of years. One example: in 2018, California became the first state to require women be included on companies boards of directors.**** 

2. Provide two different 4-8 sentence summary of separate interesting topics or experiments discussed in the text that we DID NOT cover in the presentation. Detail why you found it interesting, and try to relate it to your own life. Again, DO NOT directly quote the text, use your own words. --5 points

**One section of the textbook that was not covered in the lecture is on Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, typically referred to as OCD. Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder is characterized by a relentless stream of unwanted thoughts followed by actions that are for the most part uncontrollable by the affected client. OCD affects about 2-3% of the population and can be a snowball effect that is unable to be stopped. For example, you leave the house to go to a movie and you turn the corner and forget if you have locked the door. By distrusting your memory, you go back and check and you find you did indeed lock it. Depending on the degree, someone with OCD will forget and need to check many different times in order for the memory to sink in, each time the memory is less distinct. As a personal story, my wife has OCD and will get caught in obsessive thought loops. One time, while making her decision on which UC Berkeley lab she wanted to choose for her PhD, her obsessive thoughts would keep her up all night, sometimes crying into the night, going over her notes from each lab rotation. Even after making the decision to join a lab, she kept going back, often beating herself up about the lab she did finally picking, still unsure if it was the right choice. Although she is in the lab now for over a year, I know she still has thoughts on whether it was the right lab.**

**Another section of the textbook that was not covered in the lecture is Autism Spectrum Disorder. This one I am personally close with because my wife's nephew has been diagnosed as on the spectrum and is non-verbal (and has other symptoms listed in the book like flapping fingers.)  Autism Spectrum Disorder is still a mystery to most reachers and is characterized  by the main symptoms of impaired social relationships, impaired communication (like my nephew in-law), and stereotyped behaviors like i described above. studies shows that autism has a strong genetic basis. Other causes may be related to the prenatal environment or complications during birth. Autism is still considered a mystery although treatment is getting better. No drugs seem to work but my brother-in-law has found that patience and the right learning environment has help with relieving the above symptoms such as Impaired communication.**

3. Compare the different ANXIETY disorders that we discussed and determine which would have the most detrimental impact on a person's life overall.  Explain your answer with at least 2 arguments rooted in the content. Please note that you are not required to share anything too personal in your responses here, I know that this is a sensitive topic. --2.5 points


**Although the three anxiety disorders that were discussed in the lecture seem similar on the surface, we start to find the different degrees of impact on someone diagnosed as we dig deeper. General Anxiety disorder mostly has affects in the mind, panic disorder has much stronger affects in the body (like breathing complications, increased heart rate, chest pains) and it's living mechanisms and phobias, from my understanding, are often a combination of the two as well as a strong yearning to avoid the specific item that is feared.  I believe the panic disorder can be the most detrimental because the symptoms can be very devastating on the body as well as can lead to other phobias such as agoraphobia, the feat of open or public spaces. When someone has a panic attack, they have major symptoms like rapid breathing and increased heart rate which could lead to a more serious issue like heart attack.** 

4. Compare the different MOOD disorders that we discussed and determine which would have the most detrimental impact on a person's life overall.  Explain your answer with at least 2 arguments rooted in the content. Please note that you are not required to share anything too personal in your responses here, I know that this is a sensitive topic. --2.5 points

**Unlike the last question, major depression, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia are all very different and have different impacts on the mind and body. Major depression is the shortest of the 3 with the symptoms of lack of interest, pleasure or motivation lasting for weeks at a time. Depression is tough because it also effects appetite and sleep. Bipolar disorder is more of a push and pull disorder. What I mean is that you have manic episodes that are opposite to depression where you actually feel cheerful and full of life but then can often fall even lower into a depression after that. It's important to note that people do not always fall into one or the other but can have symptoms of both.**

