## Pre-Assessment Exam
1. C (Right) - Encryption is the best chose to provide confidentiality of any type of information, including Personally Identifiable Information (PII) stored in a database. Hashing will support a use case of supporting integrity. Digital Signatures will support a use case of supporting non-repudiation. A smart card will support a use case of supporting authentication
2. B (right) -  Integrity provides assurances that data has not been modified and integrity is commonly enforced with hashing. Confidentiality prevents unauthorized disclosure of data but doesn’t address modifications of data. Availability ensures systems are up and operational when needed and uses fault tolerance and redundancy method. Authentication provides proof that users are who they claim to be
3. D (right) - Failover devices increase availability. A failover cluster uses redundant servers to ensure a service will continue to operate even if one of the servers fails. Obfuscation methods attempt to make something unclear or difficult to understand and are not related to fail over devices. Integrity methods ensure that data has not been modified. Confidentiality methods such as encryption prevent unauthorized disclosure of data.
4. A
5. B
6. C
7. B
8. B (wrong) - answer: A - Authentication should be increased, such as by forcing user to use stronger passwords. The scenario indicates that attackers are somehow obtaining customer credentials and using them to conduct the fraudulent transactions. Identification is simply claiming an identity and having customers come into the bank to obtain their credentials increases identification but this didn’t help. Accounting is typically performed by reviewing logs, but the current logs are documenting the fraud. Authorization indicates what customers can do, but there isn’t any indication that authorization is a problem.
9. B
10. C (wrong) - answer: A - This is an example of single sign on capabilities because you can log on once and access all the resources without entering your credentials again. Same sign-on requires you to reenter your credentials for each new site, but you use the same credentials. Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) is an SSO solution used for web-based applications and the bank might be using SAML, but other SSO solutions are also available. Kerberos is used in an internal network.
11. D
12. C (wrong) - answer: A - The most likely reason of those given is that shared accounts are not prohibited, allowing multiple users to access the same file. For Example, if the Guest account is enabled and used as a shared account by all users, the logs will indicate the Guest account accessed the file, but it won’t identify specific individuals. It doesn’t matter how permissions are assigned in order for a log to identify who accessed the file. Account lockout stops someone from guessing a password but it doesn’t affect file access logs.
13. C
14. D
15. A
16. C
17. A
18. A
19. C
20. B (wrong) - answer: C - A web application firewall (WAF) is the best choice. You can place it in the demilitarized come (DMZ) and the web farm servers in the internal network. In addition to protecting the web servers, the WAF also provides load balancing. None of the other solutions provides load balancing. A stateless firewall filters traffic based on the state of a packet within a session. A stateful firewall filters traffic based on the state of a packet within a session. A host-based firewall provides protection for a single host.
21. B (wrong answer) - Answer: A - a mail gateway is placed between an email server and the internet and mail gateways typically include data loss prevention (DLP) capabilities. They can inspect the contents of outgoing traffic looking for keywords and block any traffic containing proprietary data. A unified threat management (UTM) device includes content inspection, but this most often blocks specific types of traffic, or specific file types. A mail gateway is more focused on email. Proxy servers are typically used for web traffic. They don’t include the ability to filter email.
22. D
23. B
24. C
25. D
26. B (Wrong) - answer: D - a honeypot can divert mallows attacks to a harmless area of your network, such as away from production servers holding valid data. An Intrusion prevention system (IPS) can block attacks, but it doesn’t divert them. A proxy server can filer and cache content from web pages, but it doesn’t divert attacks. A web application firewall (WAF) is an additional firewall designed to protect a web application.
27. C
28. B
29. A
30. C (wrong answer) - answer:A - the best answer of the available choices is to use the chroot command to isolate the application within a sandbox. Sideloading is the process of copying an application to a mobile device, not a linux-based computer. Full disk encryuption(FDE) is associated with mobile devices and would not isolate an application. The chmod command is used to change permissions on a Linux system.
31. B
32. D (wrong) - answer: C - Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) is a cloud computing option where the vendor provides access to a computer, but customers must manage the system, including keeping it up to date with current patches, a community cloud is shared among several organizations but the scenario doesn’t indicate the resources are shared. Software as a Service (SaaS) provides access to applications, such as email, but not to the operating system. An IaaS solution can be public private or a hybrid solution. A hybrid cloud is a combination of two or more public, private, and/or community clouds.
33. A (wrong) - answer: D - The generators are likely controlled within a supervisory control and at a acquisition (SCADA) system and isolating them within a virtual local area network (VLAN) will protect them from unauthorized access. An internal Certificate Authority issues and manages certificates within a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), but there isn’t any indication certificates are in use. Wi-Fi protected Access II (WPA2) secures wireless networks, but doesn’t protect SCADA networks. Patch management processes help ensure systems are kept up to date, but this doesn’t apply in this scenario
34. D
35. B
36. A
37. B
38. D
39. D (wrong) - answer: B - This email is a form of spear phishing because it is targeting users in the same organization. While it is a form of phishing, spear phishing is a better answer because the email targeted users in the same organization. It is also space because it is unwanted email, but not all spam is mallows. Phishing and swear phishing are types of attacks using email. Vishing is similar to phishing, but it uses telephone technology.
40. B C
41. B (wrong) - Answer: A - A distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack includes attacks from multiple systems with the goal of depleting the target’s resources and this scenario indicates multiple connection attempts from different IP addresses. A DoS attack comes from a single system, and a SYN flood is an example of a DoS attack. While the DDoS attack may be an amplification attack (an attack that significantly increases the amount of traffic sent to victim), the scenario doesn’t give enough details to identify this as an amplification attack. Salting is a method used to prevent brute force attacks to discover passwords.
42. C E
43. B
44. B
45. A
46. C
47. B (wrong) - Answer: D - Dynamic analysis techniques (such as fuzzing) can test the application’s ability to maintain availability and data integrity for some scenarios. Fuzzing sends random data to an application to verify the random data doesn’t crash the application or expose the system to a data breach. Model verification ensures that the software meets specifications and fulfills its intended purpose, but it doesn’t force on reliability or integrity. Input validation and error-handling techniques protect applications but do not test them.
48. B C (half wrong) - answer: B D - Input validation and web application firewall (WAF) are the best choices of the available answers. Both provide protection against cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks. Input Validation validates data before using it to help prevent XSS attacks. A WAF acts as an addition firewall that monitors, filters, and/or blocks HTTP traffic to a web server. Non of the other answers will directly prevent XSS attacks. Dynamic code analysis (such as fuzzing) can test code. Code obfuscate makes the code more difficult to read. Normalization refers to organizing tables and columns in a database to reduce redundant data and improve overall database performance.
49. B (wrong) - answer: A - A treat assessment evaluates potential dangers that can compromise the confidentiality, integrity , and /or availability of data or a system. It evaluates threats and attempts to identify the potential impact from threats. A vulnerability assessment evaluates vulnerabilities (or weaknesses), not potential dangers. A privacy threshold assessment helps an organization identify Personally Identifiable Information (PII) within a system and a privacy impact assessment attempts to identify potential risks related to PII. However, this scenario doesn’t mention PII.
50. B (wrong) - answer: A - The expected loss is a single loss expectancy (SLE) and you can calculate it within the annual loss expectancy (ALE) and annual rate of occurrence (ARO), as ALE / ARO. The SLE is what you are trying to determine, so you don’t have the value. The return on investment (ROI) will not help in identifying the SLE.
51. C
52. D
53. D (wrong) - Answer: C - a vulnerability scan identifies vulnerabilities that attackers can potentially exploit, and vulnerability scanners perform passive testing. A penetration test actively tests the application and can potentially compromise the system. A port scan only identifies open ports. A sniffer can capture traffic for analysis, but it doesn’t check for security controls.
54. A (wrong) - answer: C - a protocol analyzer (or sniffer) can capture traffic sent over a network and identify the type of traffic the source of the traffic, and protocol flags used within individual packets. A security information and event management (SIEM) system provides a centralized solution for collecting, analyzing, and managing log data from multiple sources, but it doesn’t collect and analyze packets. Netcat is useful for remotely administering servers, but it doesn’t collect and analyze packets. A vulnerability scan identifies vulnerabilities on a network. 
55. B
56. D  (wrong) - answer: B - Layered Security (or defense in depth) implements multiple controls to provide several layers of protection. In this case, the antivirus software provides one layer of protection while the firewall and IDS provide additional layers. Implicit deny blocks access unless it has been explicitly allowed. Least privilege ensures that users are granted only the access they need to perform their jobs, and no more. A flood guard attempts to block SYN flood attacks.
57. A (wrong) - answer: A - a mantrap controls access to a secure area and only allows a single person to pass at a time. The scenario describes the social engineering attic of tailgating, not the control to prevent it. Some sophisticated mantraps include identification and authorization systems, such as biometric systems or smart card and PINs. However, biometrics and smart cards used for physical security do not restrict passage to one person at a time unless they are combined with a mantrap.
58. C (wrong) - answer: D - Load balancing shifts the load among multiple systems and can increase the site’s availability by adding additional nodes when necessary. A failover causer also provides high availability, but there is no such thing as a fail-open cluster. Certificates help ensure confidentiality and integrity, but do not assist with availability. A web application firewall helps protect availability from normal client requests.
59. C
60. D (wrong) - answer: C - Closed-circuit television (CCTV) or a similar video surveillance system can monitor the entrance and record who enters and exits the area. A Mantrap prevents tailgating, but it doesn’t necessarily identify individuals. An access list is useful if a guard is identifying users and allowing access based on the access list, but the access list does not identify users. Bollards are a type of barricade that protects building entrances.
61. D (wrong) - answer:A - a privacy impact assessment attempts to identify potential risks related to Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and ensure the organization is complying with applicable laws and regulations. A privacy threshold assessment helps an organization identify PII within a system and determine if a privacy impact assessment is needed. A threat assessment is part of a risk assessment and helps identify potentials threats. A supply chain assessment is part of a risk assessment and helps identify potential problems in the supply chain that might impact an organization’s mission.
62. A (wrong) - answer: D - Hashing algorithms such has Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA) and Hash-based Message Authentication Code (HMAC) can detect changes in files (or verify the files have not lost integrity). Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) is a method used to secure email communication. Elliptic curve cryptography (ECC), Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), and Twofish are all encryption algorithms.
63. B (wrong) - answer: D - Bcrypt is a key stretching technique designed to protect against brute force and rainbow table attacks and is the best choice of the given answers. Another alternative is Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2). Both salt the password with additional bits. Passwords stored using Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA) are easier to crack because they don’t use salts. Bcrypt is based on Blowfish, but Blowfish itself isn’t commonly used to encrypt passwords. Elliptic curve cryptography (ECC) is efficient and sometimes used with mobile devices, but not to encrypt passwords.
64. B (wrong) - answer: D - In the context of encryption, confusion means that the cipher text is significantly different that the plaintext. In cryptography, diffusion ensures that small changes in the plaintext result in large changes in ciphertext. Obfuscation techniques attempt to hide data or make something unclear, but they don’t necessarily convert plaintext to ciphertext. A collision refers to a hashing algorithm vulnerability and is unrelated to encryption.
65. B (wrong) - answer: D - Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman Ephemeral (ECDHE) allows entities to negotiate encryption keys securely over a public network and is the best choice of the available answers. A certificate revocation list (CRL) identifies revoked certificates and is unrelated to sharing encryption keys. Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2) is a key stretching technique designed to make password cracking more difficult. Hashing methods do not support sharing encryption keys over a public network.
66. C (wrong) - answer: D - Galois/Counter Mode (GCM) combines the Counter (CTM) mode with hashing techniques to provide both confidentiality and data authenticity. None of the other modes listed provide data authenticity. CTM mode combines an initialization vector (IV) with a counter to encrypt blocks. Cipher Block Chaning (CBC) mode encrypts the first block with an IV. It then combines each subsequent block with the previous block using XOR operation. The Electronic Codebook (ECB) mode of operation should not be used because it encrypts blocks with the same key, making it easier for attackers to crack.
67. C
68. C (wrong) - answer: B - A certificate revocation list (CRL) can meet this need because CRLs are cached. If public Certificate Authority (CA) is not reachable due to any type of connection outage or CA outage, the cached CRL can be used as long as the cache time has not expired. The Online certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) works in realtime where the client queries the CA with the serial number of the certificate. If the CA is unreachable, the certificate cannot be validated. A private CA is used within an organization and cannot validate certificates from a public CA. You request a certificate with a certificate signing request (CSR) , but the CSR doesn’t validate an issued certificate.
69. C
70. C
71. D
72. B
73. D
74. D
75. B

<span style="font-size:31pt;">47 out of 78 right = 63%</span>

Keywords from missed questions